RATIONALE

   Why xplot, when we already have so many graphics programs?
Well, first of all it is a simple, straightforward, plot (5)
filter. No fancy buttons or options or silly syntax. Mostly just
a plain old filter. However, it is implemented as an Athena
Labelwidget, so of course all the usual XToolkit options are
available.
   When first called, it immediately brings up a blank window,
and as plot(5) data appears on the input stream it draws
the stuff right away (it uses CBREAK mode). This means it
can be used either interactively, with a pipe, or with
a preprocessed file.  Xplot draws in the background
pixmap of the window, so that redrawing is very fast (compared
with an xterm tektronix window for example). The disadvantage
of this, of course (there had to be one) is that on resizing,
the plot does not resize with the window, but retains its
original shape (it is properly centered though). Xplot is in general
much more convenient than the standard Tek window, since several
different windows can be maintained at once, to compare different
sets of data, for example.  You do not lose control of your
window while gazing at a plot.  Each xplot window is destroyed
by a mouse button press anywhere in it, but not until EOF has been
reached on the input stream.

Written by Arthur Smith (Lassp, Cornell University).
Modified from X distribution by G. Helffrich/U. Bristol, May 1994; March 1997.

DIFFERENCES FROM SUNPLOT

1.  -b option (reverse video) implemented using X -rv option.

BUGS, WISH LIST and THINGS TO DO

1.  Default file name from X resources database (for example, ./pltfil)

INSTALLATION NOTES

A Makefile exists.  You should only need to change various defines in it
to make the code and documentation.  The relevant defines are:

DEST - 
   destination for object code for 'make install', defaults to /usr/local/bin
LIB -
   nplot font library, which should be the the same as that defined in the
   make file for the nplot subroutine.  Defaults to /usr/local/lib.
OWNER -
GROUP -
   ownership for files installed by 'make install'
LDJUNK -
   may not be necessary, but overcomes a bug in some versions of SunOS which
   ignores all but the first component in the LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment
   variable (see the man page for the 'ld' command if you don't know what this
   variable does).
 
CFLAGS = -g -I/usr/openwin/include
   you may wish to change the -g to -O before you make install, which renders
   the program undebuggable (debuggability is only desirable for system
   developers).  The text following -I should be the path for your X include
   files.  Set -DSGI -xansi if you are compiling with the Silicon Graphics
   IRIX Unix variant.

Please notify me of any installation problems and bugs.

George Helffrich/U. Bristol
george@geology.bristol.ac.uk
